In this exercise, your goal was to get a better understanding of how to manage
encryption keys in the AWS Key Management System or KMS.
You set up roles for two different lambda applications and modulated
key permissions to get a better feel for how to secure and restrict encryption keys.
You also tested permissions by having the applications read and write encrypted data.
I will now walk through the steps taken to complete the exercise successfully.
For my AWS console,
I have already created two different IAM roles for this exercise.
Let's take a look at the roles.
These are the roles. You can see both roles allow a lambda function to invoke them.
I will now create a KMS key and allow
the first role to use the key for encryption operations.
I'll call the key cand-c3-l3-ex2-key,
and I'll select myself as the key admin,
and I'm going to find the lambda functions role that I had created.
So I have two roles: one which is going to allow write operations,
one is going to allow to read the operations.
I'm going to select the role that allows write operations for now.
Create the key. Now that I have the KMS key,
I'm going to have to get the key ARN,
which is going to be an input parameter to my lambda functions.
So go back into the key and get the key ARN.
I'm going to copy this.
Let's take a look at the lambda function.
So first, we'll look at the lambda right function.
So this function is going to take
an S3 bucket and a KMS key as environment variables.
So I have my S3 bucket set.
I want to set the key ARN.
This is the key that I just created.
As you can see, this lambda function is going to be writing
an object to the S3 bucket using a put object call.
A put object call has server-side encryption set to
KMS and it's going to use the key that I just created to encrypt the object.
To run my function, I have a test event,
which is just a dummy test event,
because this function is not using the event handler.
So I can just hit test here to run my lambda function.
As you can see, my lambda function ran without error.
So let's verify that the function had successfully written the file the way we expected.
So let's go to the S3 bucket and verify that.
This is the bucket where we wrote the file and this is the file that was just written.
Let's look at the details of the file.
As you can see, it has server-side encryption enabled and with the specified KMS key.
So now, this is an encrypted object.
Let's try to run the second lambda function,
which should not have permissions to use the key.
It's called lambda read.
Looking at the code,
we can see that this function is going to retrieve
that same object using the get object call,
and it's just going to print out the contents of the file and run the function.
As you can see, the execution failed.
We got back an access denied error,
and that's because this role
that this lambda function is using does not have permissions to use the key.
So let's go back to KMS and manage the permissions for
the key and let's add the role for the second lambda function.
This is the role that the lambda read function is using.
So now, let's try to run the function again.
It succeeded this time.
Let's look at the output.
Here, the output is the contents of the file.
So that tells me that the application code is able to get
the object in a decrypted form and read the contents.
So I'm confident that after completing this exercise,
you have a better understanding of how to use KMS key policies that can
help protect your data by restricting or allowing
applications the ability to access encrypted data.